---
layout: post
title: "POODR - Ch4: Creating Flexible Interfaces"
tags: POODR
---
There is design detail that must be captured at this level but an object-oriented application is more than just classes. It is made up of classes but defined by messages. Classes control what’s in your source code repository; messages reflect the living, ani- mated application.
Design, therefore, must be concerned with the messages that pass between ob- jects. It deals not only with what objects know (their responsibilities) and who they know (their dependencies), but how they talk to one another. The conversation be- tween objects takes place using their interfaces.

 ##Defining Public Interfaces
 The kitchen does many things but does not, thankfully, expose them all to its customers. It has a public interface that customers are expected to use; the menu. Within the kitchen many things happen, many other messages get passed, but these messages are private and thus invisible to customers. Each of your classes is like a kitchen. The class exists to fulfill a single responsibil- ity but implements many methods.

 ###Public Interfaces
The methods that make up the public interface of your class comprise the face it presents to the world. They:
• Reveal its primary responsibility
• Are expected to be invoked by others
• Will not change on a whim
• Are safe for others to depend on
• Are thoroughly documented in the tests

###Private Interfaces
All other methods in the class are part of its private interface. They:
• Handle implementation details
• Are not expected to be sent by other objects • Can change for any reason whatsoever
• Are unsafe for others to depend on
• May not even be referenced in the tests

Domain objects are easy to find but they are not at the design center of your application. Instead, they are a trap for the unwary. If you fixate on domain objects you will tend to coerce behavior into them. Design experts notice domain objects without concentrating on them; they focus not on these objects but on the messages that pass between them. These messages are guides that lead you to discover other objects, ones that are just as necessary but far less obvious.

Before you sit at the keyboard and start typing you should form an intention about the objects and the messages needed to satisfy this use case.


###Using Sequence Diagrams
There is a perfect, low-cost way to experiment with objects and messages: sequence diagrams.
Therein lies the value of sequence diagrams. They explicitly specify the messages that pass between objects, and because objects should only communicate using public interfaces, sequence diagrams are a vehicle for exposing, experimenting with, and ultimately defining those interfaces.

Also, notice now that you have drawn a sequence diagram, this design conversation has been inverted. The previous design emphasis was on classes and who and what they knew. Suddenly, the conversation has changed; it is now revolving around mes- sages. Instead of deciding on a class and then figuring out its responsibilities, you are now deciding on a message and figuring out where to send it.

This transition from class-based design to message-based design is a turning point in your design career. The message-based perspective yields more flexible applications than does the class-based perspective. Changing the fundamental design question from “I know I need this class, what should it do?” to “I need to send this message, who should respond to it?” is the first step in that direction.
You don’t send messages because you have objects, you have objects because you send messages.


###Asking for “What” Instead of Telling “How”
The distinction between a message that asks for what the sender wants and a message that tells the receiver how to behave may seem subtle but the consequences are significant. Understanding this difference is a key part of creating reusable classes with well-defined public interfaces.


###Seeking Context Independence
The context that an object expects has a direct effect on how difficult it is to reuse. Objects that have a simple context are easy to use and easy to test; they expect few things from their surroundings. Objects that have a complicated context are hard to use and hard to test; they require complicated setup before they can do anything.
The best possible situation is for an object to be completely independent of its context. An object that could collaborate with others without knowing who they are or what they do could be reused in novel and unanticipated ways.
You already know the technique for collaborating with others without knowing who they are—dependency injection.

###Trusting Other Objects
If objects were human and could describe their own relationships, in Figure 4.5 Trip would be telling Mechanic: “I know what I want and I know how you do it;” in Figure 4.6: “I know what I want and I know what you do” and in Figure 4.7: “I know what I want and I trust you to do your part.”
This blind trust is a keystone of object-oriented design. It allows objects to collab- orate without binding themselves to context and is necessary in any application that expects to grow and change.

##Create Explicit Interfaces
Your goal is to write code that works today, that can easily be reused, and that can be adapted for unexpected use in the future. Other people will invoke your methods; it is your obligation to communicate which ones are dependable.
www.it-ebooks.info
Writing Code That Puts Its Best (Inter)Face Forward 77 Every time you create a class, declare its interfaces. Methods in the public
interface should
• Be explicitly identified as such
• Be more about what than how
• Have names that, insofar as you can anticipate, will not change • Take a hash as an options parameter

Be just as intentional about the private interface; make it inescapably obvious. Tests, because they serve as documentation, can support this endeavor. Either do not test private methods or, if you must, segregate those tests from the tests of public methods. Do not allow your tests to fool others into unintentionally depending on the changeable, private interface.
Ruby provides three relevant keywords: public, protected, and private. Use of these keywords serves two distinct purposes. First, they indicate which methods are stable and which are unstable. Second, they control how visible a method is to other parts of your application. These two purposes are very different. Conveying informa- tion that a method is stable or unstable is one thing; attempting to control how others use it is quite another.
Public, Protected, and Private Keywords
The private keyword denotes the least stable kind of method and provides the most restricted visibility. Private methods must be called with an implicit receiver, or, inversely, may never be called with an explicit receiver.

The protected keyword also indicates an unstable method, but one with slightly different visibility restrictions. Protected methods allow explicit receivers as long as the receiver is self or an instance of the same class or subclass of self.


Honor the Public Interfaces of Others
Do your best to interact with other classes using only their public interfaces.f your design forces the use of a private method in another class, first rethink your design. It’s possible that a committed effort will unearth an alternative; you should try very hard to find one. A dependency on a private method of an external framework is a form of technical debt. Avoid these dependencies.

Minimize Context
Construct public interfaces with an eye toward minimizing the context they require from others. Keep the what versus how distinction in mind; create public methods that allow senders to get what they want without knowing how your class implements its behavior.

Do what best suits your needs, but create some kind of defined public interface and use it. This reduces your class’s context, making it easier to reuse and simpler to test.

